Cross-origin resource sharing is how browsers and resource
servers protect users from malicious JavaScript.
Say you're browsing a website.
That website uses a third party ad company and loads ads that
originate from different domains on the same page.
The origin of the app's JavaScript is different from the main page.
And if it was some malicious piece of JavaScript,
you wouldn't want it to start making cross-domain requests.
It could be trying to send your personal data out,
such as items stored on your local storage,
which could include cookies, tokens, session IDs,
or try to make POST requests to your site.
And these days sites get resources from all over the place, like CDNs, etc.
In the past, browsers simply blocked all agent requests that were cross-domain,
meaning only same-as-origin requests were allowed to address this issue.
However, since then, JavaScript applications are more popular now,
and the CORSs standard was introduced to provide a way to
perform cross-domain requests safely.
CORS is triggered any time a script makes a request to a different domain,
a different subdomain, a different port,
or a different protocol.
For simple cross-domain requests like a GET,
the server will still make the request to the resource server.
The response will be returned,
but the browser can block it from reaching the JavaScript
unless the resource server returned a specific header
approving the cross-domain request.
For non-simple requests like PUT, DELETE,
the browser can't just simply let them hit the server
as they could perform an action, like remove crypto from your portfolio.
So in order to check with the resource server if the request is allowed,
the browser will do a pre-flight request to ask the server if
the request is supported for that domain.
If the response from the server contains the headers and support the request,
only then would the browser make the actual request.
This is why we saw the OPTIONS request in the Network tab.
Okay, so next,
let's see how Spring Security deals with these requests by informing the browser that requests from our React app origin are approved.